Breaking API checks (#896)
mapbox/mapbox-maps-ios: scripts/api-compatibility-check/README.md

> # API Compatibility check

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# API Compatibility Check
```

We should be more consistent with capitalization in the headings. I'm fine with sentence case or title case as long as it's consistent.

> ## What is it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What is it?
```

> API compatibility checks help us to ensure that we would not accidentally break a public API. The set of scripts runs Apple's tool `swift-api-digester` to dump public API to a reusable JSON file and compare each other.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
API compatibility checks help to ensure that we do not accidentally break the public API. The set of scripts runs Apple's `swift-api-digester` tool to dump the public API into a reusable JSON file for comparison with other versions.
```

## How to run

> You can find two scripts in this folder. The first, `breaking-api-check.sh`, designed to run set of public API checks over the pre-built baseline. The second, `rebuild-baseline.sh`, helps to generate new baseline based on git reference. Let's take a closer look on each of them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find two scripts in this folder. The first, `breaking-api-check.sh`, is designed to run a set of public API checks over the pre-built baseline. The second, `rebuild-baseline.sh`, helps to generate a new baseline based on a git reference. Let's take a closer look at each of them.
```

### `breaking-api-check.sh`

> The `breaking-api-check.sh` accept optional argument `-p path` which should be packaged version of MapboxMaps. Without `-p` argument, script would trigger `scripts/release/packager/package-mapbox-maps.sh` to build XCFramework from scratch. It is useful to path pre-built binary to avoid extra building steps. Breaking API checks running against `.baseline.zip` JSON API digester dump. To update the baseline, you have to proceed to `rebuild-baseline.sh`.
> The script is path-independent so you can call it from any other folder with an absolute or relative path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`breaking-api-check.sh` accepts an optional argument `-p path` which should be a packaged version of MapboxMaps. Without the `-p` argument, the script triggers `scripts/release/packager/package-mapbox-maps.sh` to build XCFramework from scratch. It is useful to specify the path of a pre-built binary to avoid the extra building steps. Breaking API checks running against the `.baseline.zip` JSON API digester dump. To update the baseline, see `rebuild-baseline.sh`.

The script is path-independent so you can call it from any other folder with an absolute or relative path.
```

### `rebuild-baseline.sh`

> The `rebuild-baseline.sh` script simplifies baseline data updates. Usually, we should not update the baseline for the major version. However, my investigations show that digester would trigger breaking changes for `@_spi` changes as well which is not the desired behavior.
> To update the baseline, update the `.baseapi` file to include a new git reference, then call the script. The new git worktree would be checkout in a hidden folder for script purposes. 
> In a successful result, you would get an updated version of `.baseline.zip`. This archive represents folder structure with JSON SDK API dump made by swift-api-digester. It is a native structure for `swift-api-digester` so we can easily extend our platform validations to include macosx/watchos or any other Apple platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`rebuild-baseline.sh` simplifies baseline data updates. Usually, we should not update the baseline within a single major version. However, the digester tool triggers breaking changes for `@_spi` changes as well which is not the desired behavior since we use these to denote experimental APIs which we reserve the right to change outside of a major version bump.

To update the baseline, update the `.baseapi` file to include a new git reference, then call the script. The new git worktree is checked out in a hidden folder for script purposes.

Upon success, you will get an updated version of `.baseline.zip`. This archive represents folder structure with JSON SDK API dump made by swift-api-digester. It is a native structure for `swift-api-digester` so we can easily extend our platform validations to include macosx/watchos or any other Apple platform.
```

> This archive represents folder structure with JSON SDK API dump made by swift-api-digester.

I don't understand what this means.

Author: swift-api-digester can generate a baseline folder structure. It looks like: 
Root folder – API – { iphoneos.json |  macosx.json | … }
I am preserving the same folders and files to make them compatible with swift-api-digester.

Reviewer: That makes more sense.

> ## What is `swift-api-digester`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What is `swift-api-digester`?
```

Swift API digester is an official tool to dump public API to JSON representation based on AST and compare dumps if needed.

### Limitations

> `swift-api-digester` tool lives in the opensource swift toolchain for quite a long but wasn't included in Xcode distribution until Xcode 13. That's why you have to use Xcode 13 or newer to run breakage checks.
> Another limitation is that you must use `swift-api-digester` from the same toolchain you built your SDK. You cannot run Xcode 13 digester over the SDK built with Xcode 12.5.1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`swift-api-digester` has existed in the open source Swift toolchain for quite a while, but it was not included in Xcode until Xcode 13. That's why you have to use Xcode 13 or newer to run breakage checks.
Another limitation is that you must use `swift-api-digester` from the same toolchain you used to build your SDK. You cannot run Xcode 13 digester over the SDK built with Xcode 12.5.1.
```

### Where to find `swift-api-digester`

To get access to the `swift-api-digester` you have to make a path manually. The handy shortcut can be:

```bash

> API_DIGESTER_PATH="$(xcode-select -p)/Toolchains/XcodeDefault.xctoolchain/usr/bin/swift-api-digester"

Reviewer: Would xcrun help here?

```

> There is no access to `switf-api-digester` through the `$PATH` or even `xcrun`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is no access to `swift-api-digester` through the `$PATH` or even `xcrun`.
```

Author: `swift package experimental-api-diff` is a new tool to run `swift-api-digester` in a simple way. You just passing a baseline tag to the `api-diff` and it would build both dumps and compare them.

Reviewer: Should we use that instead?

### Options

There are a few modes in `swift-api-digester` but we would use only two:

> 1. First is `--dump-sdk` mode. As it says, you can build the SDK API dump to the JSON file. It's possible to make a dump based on source code or pre-compiled SDK. You must provide sdk path (iphoneos or other) with `-sdk` argument or through `xcrun -sdk iphoneos swift-api-digester …`. 
> Pay attention to the `-target` argument which requires clang triplet like `arm64-apple-ios11.0`. You can check your own in the `.swiftinterface` header.
> Call example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. First is `--dump-sdk` mode. As it says, you can build the SDK API dump to the JSON file. It's possible to make a dump based on source code or pre-compiled SDK. You must provide SDK path (iphoneos or other) with `-sdk` argument or through `xcrun -sdk iphoneos swift-api-digester …`. 
Pay attention to the `-target` argument which requires clang triplet like `arm64-apple-ios11.0`. You can check your own in the `.swiftinterface` header.
Call example:
```

    ```bash
    xcrun --sdk iphoneos "$API_DIGESTER_PATH"\
        --dump-sdk \
        --module=MapboxMaps\
        -I "$PRODUCT_ARTIFACTS_DIR"/MapboxMaps.xcframework/ios-arm64/MapboxMaps.framework/\
        -I "$PRODUCT_ARTIFACTS_DIR"/MapboxCommon.xcframework/ios-arm64_armv7/MapboxCommon.framework/\
        -I "$PRODUCT_ARTIFACTS_DIR"/MapboxCoreMaps.xcframework/ios-arm64/MapboxCoreMaps.framework/\
        -I "$PRODUCT_ARTIFACTS_DIR"/MapboxMobileEvents.xcframework/ios-arm64/MapboxMobileEvents.framework/\
        -I "$PRODUCT_ARTIFACTS_DIR"/Turf.xcframework/ios-arm64/Turf.framework/\

>         -target arm64-apple-ios11.0\

Reviewer: Would be good to add some explanation of how to determine what value to pass here.

>         -target arm64-apple-ios11.0\

Author: Added explanation of how to find compilation target inside the `.swiftinterface`.

        --iframework "$PRODUCT_ARTIFACTS_DIR"/MapboxCommon.xcframework/ios-arm64_armv7/ \
        --iframework "$PRODUCT_ARTIFACTS_DIR"/MapboxCoreMaps.xcframework/ios-arm64/ \
        --abort-on-module-fail\
        --avoid-tool-args --avoid-location\
        --output-dir "$SCRIPT_DIR" \
        -v
    ```

2. The second is `--diagnose-sdk`. In that mode, tool would compare two input JSON (or current project against baseline) and print comparison summary. The basic call would look like:

    ```bash
    swift-api-digester --diagnose-sdk -input-paths old-api.json -input-paths new-api.json
    ```

    It is also possible to run diagnosis against the baseline. First, create folder `API` in the baseline root, then add iOS SDK dump and rename it to `iphoneos.json`. Afterward, pass `--baseline-dir "$BASELINE_DIR"` to digester without the first `-input-paths` argument.

>     You also can replace the last `-input-paths` with Clang Module search options so the digester would dump the current SDK in place for you. It is how `breaking-api-check.sd` script works.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    You also can replace the last `-input-paths` with Clang Module search options so the digester would dump the current SDK in place for you. It is how `breaking-api-check.sh` script works.
```

> ## Want to learn more

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Want to learn more?
```

> You can find more information about `swift-api-digister` tool in Apple official swift repository. The most useful are the following links:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find more information about `swift-api-digister` tool in Apple's official Swift repository. The most useful are the following links:
```
